# UEAssetToolkitGenerator 
This is a work-in-progress .NET API to generate [UEAssetToolkit](https://github.com/Archengius/UEAssetToolkit) compatible JSON files. You must have .NET 6 installed to use. Also known as Cooked Asset Serializer (CAS).

## Usage
1. Use the Settings table below to configure the generator (or load a config settings file).
2. Click the `Scan Assets` button to generate the AllTypes and AssetTypes files that helps you to fill in the `Simple assets` and `Cooked assets to copy` fields.
3. Click the `Move Cooked Assets` button to copy your specified cooked assets.
4. Click the `Serialize Assets` button to generate the JSON files.
5. Save your settings by clicking the `Save Config Settings` button if you have not done so already.

Setting | Explanation | Example
------- | ----------- | -------
**Run Tab**
Content Dir | The path to your cooked assets. | F:\CAS\Cooked\Content
Parse Dir | The path to a specific directory in your cooked assets. By default, this is the root directory of Content Dir. | F:\CAS\Cooked\Content\Art\Enemies
Dump Dir | The path to where the JSON files will be generated to. | F:\CAS\JSON
Cooked Dir | The path to where your specified cooked assets will be copied to. | F:\CAS\Cooked
Info Dir | The path to where the log and scan files will be generated to. | F:\CAS\Info
UE Version | The version of UE that your cooked assets were made with. | 4.27
Refresh Assets | Whether or not to refresh serializing the assets to JSON. | True
**Settings Tab**
Simple assets | The asset types that are "simple" i.e. only consist of properties like references and values. Use AllAssets.txt that is generated by the Scan Assets process to help you figure out which asset types may be simple[^1]. A general rule of thumb is that any custom types that your game has is a simple asset. | DataTable, DataAsset, SoundClass, MaterialFunction etc. *The default list is a good starting point.*
Cooked assets to copy | The asset types that you wish to not serialize, but rather have as cooked content in your project, perhaps due to not being able to be serialized. | ParticleSystem, SoundWave etc.
Assets with a circular dependancy | The asset types that have a circular dependancy[^2]. | SoundClass, SoundSubmix etc.
Assets to skip serializing | The asset types that you wish to not serialize into JSON. | SkeletalMesh
Assets to dummy | The asset types that you wish to serialize as shell assets. | AnimMontage, AnimSequence, CameraAnim etc.
Dummy With Properties | Whether or not to serialize the properties inside of the selected dummy assets. If you want to dummy some with properties and some without, do it in two separate runs. This is overriden by the skip serialization setting. | True
Assets to delete | Only deletes selected asset types if they exist in the JSON. | Skeleton. *Default is none.*

[^1]: You can directly copy and paste from the AllTypes file into the text box and it will automatically deal with the quotes.
[^2]: You can tell which assets have circular dependancies, because when you use the UEAssetToolkit with the JSON, it will crash and tell you that it fell into a circular dependancy loop with the assets that caused the problem. You can then use the AssetTypes file to figure out which asset type(s) are causing the problem, and then add them to this setting.

## Credits
- LongerWarrior for all of the serialization code and editing UAAPI to add new export types. 
- Archengius for developing the UEAssetToolkit in the first place.
- atenfyr for developing UAAPI/GUI which CAS builds on.
- Buckminsterfullerene for CAS GUI and various fixes/improvements.
- Narknon for helping out with testing. 